I learned to make meat sauce, or ragu, from Benedetta Vitali, the Florentine chef whotook me into her kitchen, and her family, when I was twenty-two. We made a pot of ragilat her restaurant, Zibibbo, every few days. Like most dishes at the restaurant, it starts with soffritto, a foundation of finely chopped, deeply browned aromatic vegetables. From Benedetta I learned to dote on my soffritto, first when I finely minced it with the biggest knife I’d ever seen, and then when I browned it using an inordinate amount of olive oil. Nothing is as important to the flavor of a ragu as browning, so take your time with the soffritto and the meat. After that, it’s just a matter of time before you can sit down to a bowl of pasta that tastes as magnificent as afternoon sunlight reflecting off a Tuscan hillside.

And if mincing all of those vegetables by hand is simply out of the question for you,then go ahead and use a food processor. Just pulse each vegetable separately in the machine, stopping to push everything down with a rubber spatula from time to time to make sure you get even pieces. Because the blade of the food processor will burst ope nmore cells than a knife, vegetables chopped in a machine will turn out much more watery. Put the celery and onion in a fine sieve and press firmly to drain as much liquid out as you can, then combine with the carrots and proceed as if you'd done it all by hand. No one will be the wiser. 

Set a large Dutch oven or similar pot over high heat and add enough olive oil to coat the bottom. Crumble the beef into the pot in walnut-size pieces. Cook, stirring and breaking up the meat with a slotted spoon until it sizzles and turns golden brown, 6 to 7 minutes.Do not season the meat yet—salt will draw out water and delay browning. Use the slotted spoon to transfer the meat to a large bowl, leaving the rendered fat in the pot. Brown the pork in the same way.

Add the onions, carrots, and celery—the soffritto—to the same pot and cook over medium-high heat. The amount of fat should be sufficient to nearly cover the soffritto,so add more olive oil as needed, at least another %4 cup. Cook, stirring regularly, until the vegetables are tender and the soffritto is a deep brown, 25 to 30 minutes. (You can cookthe soffritto in olive oil a day or two in advance, if you like, to break up the time-intensive steps in the recipe. Soffritto also freezes well for up to 2 months!)

Return the meat to the pot, increase the heat to high, and add the wine. Scrape the bottom of the pot with a wooden spoon to release any browned bits into the sauce. Add stock or water, milk, the bay leaves, zests, cinnamon, tomato paste, and Parmesan rind, if using. Add 10 zips of fresh nutmeg by grating it on a nutmeg grinder or other finegrater. Season with salt and freshly ground pepper to taste. Bring to a boil, then reduce toa simmer. 

Let the sauce continue to simmer, stirring occasionally. Once the milk breaks down .and the sauce starts to look appetizing, between 30 to 40 minutes, start tasting the -mixture and adjusting salt, acid, sweetness, richness, and body. If it needs some acid, add a secret splash of wine. If it seems bland, add tomato paste to bring it to life and lend sweetness. If it needs to be richer, add a little milk. If the ragu seems thin, add a gener-ous splash of stock. It’ll reduce as it simmers, leaving behind its gelatin to help thicken Pethe sauce. 

Simmer over the lowest possible heat, skimming off the fat from time to time and asa stirring often, until the meat is tender and the flavors have melded, about 1/2 to 2 hours. oeil ict When you are satisfied that the ragu is done, use a spoon or ladle to skim off the fat that has risen to the surface and remove the Parmesan rinds, bay leaves, citrus peels, and cinnamon. Taste and adjust the salt and pepper again. 

For 4 servings, toss 2 cups of hot ragu with 1 pound of pasta cooked al dente and 4 Tablespoons of butter. Serve with ample freshly grated Parmesan and store the remaining ragu in the refrigerator for up to 1 week, or in the freezer for up to 3 months. Return to a boil before using.

