"Growing up, whenever Maman asked me what I wanted for dinner, I asked for adas polo. Though it might seem virtuous for a small child to request rice with lentils, I was really after the raisins and dates that Maman would sauté in butter right before serving the dish. I always looked forward to their sweetness, combined with the earthy flavor of the lentils. When served with some spiced chicken and topped with a big dollop of Persian Herb and Cucumber Yogurt (page 371), the dish was peerless in my opinion. I’ve adapted and simplified the recipe a bit to turn it into a one-pot meal, a Persian version of Chicken with Rice, that universal comfort food. I prefer to Season chicken the might before but if you don't have much time, try to give the salt at least an hour to diffuse. 

Wrap the lid of a large Dutch oven or similar pot with a tea towel secured to the handle with a rubber band. This will absorb steam and prevent it from condensing and dripping back onto the chicken, which would make the skin soggy.  Set the Dutch oven over medium-high heat, and add olive oil to coat the bottom of the pan. Brown the chicken in two batches, so as not to crowd the pan. Begin with the skin side down, then turn and rotate the chicken around the pan to get even browning on both sides, about 4 minutes per side. Remove from pan and set aside. Carefully discard the fat.  

Return the pan to medium-heat and melt the butter. Add the onions, cumin, bay leaves, saffron, and a pinch of salt and cook, stirring, until brown and tender, about 25 minutes. 

Increase the heat to medium-high and add the rice to the pan and toast, stirring, until it turns a light golden color. Add the raisins and dates and let them fry for a minute until they start to plump.       

Pour in the stock and lentils, increase the heat to high, and bring to a boil. Season generously with salt and taste. In order to get the rice properly seasoned, make the liquid salty enough to make you slightly uncomfortable—it should be saltier than the saltiest soup you've ever tasted. Reduce the heat and nestle in the chicken, skin side up. Cover the pan and cook for 40 minutes over low heat.    

After 40 minutes, turn off the heat and let the pan sit, covered, for 10 minutes to  continue steaming, Remove lid and fluff rice with a fork. Serve immediately with Persian Herb and Cucumber Yogurt (page 371).
